Mr. Chairman, delegates, and fellow citizens: I will be honored to accept your nomination for Vice President of the United States:I accept the call to help our nominee for President to serve and defend America and I accept the challenge of a tough fight in this election, against confident opponents, at a crucial hour for our country. And I accept the privilege of serving with a man who has come through much harder missions, and met far graver challenges, and knows how tough fights are won -- the next President of the United States, John S. McCain.It was just a year ago when all the experts in Washington counted out our nominee because he refused to hedge his commitment to the security of the country he loves. With their usual certitude, they told us that all was lost -- there was no hope for this candidate who said that he would rather lose an election than see his country lose a war.But the pollsters -- the pollsters and the pundits they overlooked just one thing when they wrote him off. They overlooked the caliber of the man himself -- the determination, and resolve, and the sheer guts of Senator John McCain.The voters knew better. And maybe that's because they realize there’s a time for politics and a time for leadership, a time to campaign and a time to put our country first.Our nominee for President is a true profile in courage, and people like that are hard to come by. He's a man who wore the uniform of his country for 22 years, and refused to break faith with those troops in Iraq who now have brought victory within sight.And as the mother of one of those troops, that is exactly the kind of man I want as commander in chief. Thank you. I'm just one of many moms who'll say an extra prayer each night for our sons and daughters going into harm's way.Our son Track is 19. And one week from tomorrow -- September 11th -- he'll deploy to Iraq with the Army infantry in the service of his country. My nephew Kasey also enlisted, and serves on a carrier in the Persian Gulf. My family is so proud of both of them and of all the fine men and women serving the country in uniform.So, Track is the eldest of our five children. In our family, it's two boys and three girls in between -- my strong and kind-hearted daughters Bristol, and Willow, and Piper. And we were so blessed in April, Todd and I welcomed our littlest one into the world, a perfectly beautiful baby boy named Trig. You know, from the inside, no family ever seems typical and that's how it is with us. Our family has the same ups and downs as any other, the same challenges and the same joys.  Sometimes even the greatest joys bring challenge.And children with special needs inspire a very, very special love. To the families of special-needs -- To the families of special-needs children all across this country, I have a message for you: For years, you’ve sought to make America a more welcoming place for your sons and daughters.  And I pledge to you that if we’re elected, you will have a friend and advocate in the White House.And Todd is a story all by himself. He's a lifelong commercial fisherman, and a production operator in the oil fields of Alaska's North Slope, and a proud member of the United Steel Workers' Union, and Todd is a world champion snow machine racer. Throw in his Yup'ik Eskimo ancestry, and it all makes for quite a package. And we met in high school, and two decades and five children later he's still my guy.My Mom and Dad both worked at the elementary school in our small town. And among the many things I owe them is a simple lesson that I’ve learned: that this is America, and every woman can walk through every door of opportunity. And my parents are here tonight. I am so proud to be the daughter of Chuck and Sally Heath.Long ago, a young farmer and a habber-dasher from Missouri, he followed an unlikely path -- he followed an unlikely path to the vice presidency. And a writer observed: "We grow good people in our small towns, with honesty, and sincerity, and dignity." And I know just the kind of people that writer had in mind when he praised Harry Truman. I grew up with those people. They’re the ones who do some of the hardest work in America, who grow our food, and run our factories, and fight our wars. They love their country, in good times and bad, and they're always proud of America. I had the privilege of living most of my life in a small town.I was just your average hockey mom, and signed up for the PTA. I love those hockey moms. You know they say the difference between a hockey mom and a pit bull:  lipstick. So, I signed up for the PTA because I wanted to make my kids' public education even better. And when I ran for city council, I didn't need focus groups and voter profiles because I knew those voters, and I knew their families, too.Before I became governor of the great state of Alaska, I was mayor of my hometown. And since our opponents in this presidential election seem to look down on that experience, let me explain to them what the job involves. I guess -- I guess a small-town mayor is sort of like a "community organizer," except that you have actual responsibilities. I might add -- I might add that in small towns, we don't quite know what to make of a candidate who lavishes praise on working people when they’re listening, and then talks about how bitterly they cling to their religion and guns when those people aren't listening. No, we tend to prefer candidates who don't talk about us one way in Scranton and another way in San Francisco. As for my running mate, you can be certain that wherever he goes, and whoever is listening, John McCain is the same man.Well, I'm not a member of the permanent political establishment. And I've learned quickly, these last few days, that if you're not a member in good standing of the Washington elite, then some in the media consider a candidate unqualified for that reason alone. But -- but no, here's a little news flash -– no, here’s a little news flash for those reporters and commentators: I'm not going to Washington to seek their good opinion. I'm going to Washington to serve the people of this great country. Americans expect us to go to Washington for the right reason, and not just to mingle with the right people.Politics isn't just a game of clashing parties and competing interests. The right reason is to challenge the status quo, to serve the common good, and to leave this nation better than we found it. No one expects us all to agree on everything. But we are expected to govern with integrity, and good will, and clear convictions, and a servant's heart.And I pledge to all Americans that I will carry myself in this spirit as Vice President of the United States. This was the spirit that brought me to the governor's office, when I took on the old politics as usual in Juneau, when I stood up to the special interests, and the lobbyists, and the big oil companies, and the good-ol' boys. Suddenly I realized that sudden and relentless reform never sits well with entrenched interests and power brokers. That's why true reform is so hard to achieve.But with the support of the citizens of Alaska, we shook things up. And in short order we put the government of our state back on the side of the people. I came to office promising major ethics reform, to end the culture of self-dealing. And today, that ethics reform is the law.While I was at it, I got rid of a few things in the governor's office that I didn't believe our citizens should have to pay for. That luxury jet was over the top. I put it on eBay. I love to drive myself to work. And I thought we could muddle through without the governor's personal chef, although I've got to admit that sometimes my kids sure miss her. I came to office promising to control spending, by request if possible but by veto if necessary.Senator McCain, also, he promises to use the power of veto in defense of the public interest, and as a chief executive, I can assure you it works.Our state budget is under control. We have a surplus. And I have protected the taxpayers by vetoing wasteful spending: nearly half a billion dollars in vetoes. We suspended the state fuel tax, and championed reform to end the abuses of earmark spending by Congress.I told the Congress "thanks, but no thanks," on that Bridge to Nowhere. If our state wanted to build a bridge, we were going to build it ourselves. When oil and gas prices went up dramatically, and filled up the state treasury, I sent a large share of that revenue back where it belonged -- directly to the people of Alaska. And despite fierce opposition from oil company lobbyists, who kinda liked things the way that they were, we broke their monopoly on power and resources.As governor, I insisted on competition and basic fairness to end their control of our state and return it to the people. I fought to bring about the largest private-sector infrastructure project in North American history. And when that deal was struck, we began a nearly forty billion dollar natural gas pipeline to help lead America to energy independence. That pipeline, when the last section is laid and its valves are opened, will lead America one step farther away from dependence on dangerous foreign powers that do not have our interests at heart.The stakes for our nation could not be higher. When a hurricane strikes in the Gulf of Mexico, this country should not be so dependent on imported oil that we’re forced to draw from our Strategic Petroleum Reserve. And families cannot throw more and more of their paychecks on gas and heating oil. With Russia wanting to control a vital pipeline in the Caucasus, and to divide and intimidate our European allies by using energy as a weapon, we cannot leave ourselves at the mercy of foreign suppliers.To confront the threat that Iran might seek to cut off nearly a fifth of the world’s energy supplies -- or that terrorists might strike again at the Abqaiq facility in Saudi Arabia -- or that Venezuela might shut off its oil discoveries and its deliveries of that source, Americans, we need to produce more of our own oil and gas. And take it from a gal who knows the North Slope of Alaska: we've got lots of both.Our opponents say, again and again, that drilling will not solve all of America's energy problems -- as if we didn't know that already. But the fact -- the fact that drilling, though, won't solve every problem is no excuse to do nothing at all.Starting in January, in a McCain-Palin Administration, we're going to lay more pipelines, and build more nuclear plants, and create jobs with clean coal, and move forward on solar, wind, geothermal, and other alternative sources.We need -- We need American sources of resources, we need American energy brought to you by American ingenuity, and produced by American workers.And now I've noticed a pattern with our opponent. And maybe you have, too. We've all heard his dramatic speeches before devoted followers.And there is much to like and admire about our opponent. But listening to him speak, it's easy to forget that this is a man who has authored two memoirs but not a single major law or even a reform, not even in the state senate.This is a man who can give an entire speech about the wars America is fighting, and never use the word "victory" except when he's talking about his own campaign. But when the cloud of rhetoric has passed, when the roar of the crowd fades away, when the stadium lights go out, and those Styrofoam Greek columns are hauled back to some studio lot -- when that happens, what exactly is our opponent's plan? What does he actually seek to accomplish, after he's done turning back the waters and healing the planet? The answer -- The answer is to make government bigger, and take more of your money, and give you more orders from Washington, and to reduce the strength of America in a dangerous world. America needs more energy; our opponent is against producing it.Victory in Iraq is finally in sight and he wants to forfeit. Terrorist states are seeking nuclear weapons without delay; he wants to meet them without preconditions. Al Qaeda terrorists still plot to inflict catastrophic harm on America and he's worried that someone won't read ‘em their rights?Government is too big. He wants to grow it. Congress spends too much money. He promises more. Taxes are too high and he wants to raise them. His tax increases are the fine print in his economic plan and let me be specific.The Democratic nominee for President supports plans to raise income taxes, and raise payroll taxes, and raise investment income taxes, and raise the death tax, and raise business taxes, and increase the tax burden on the American people by hundreds of billions of dollars.My sister Heather and her husband, they just built a service station that's now opened for business -- like millions of others who run small businesses. How are they -- how are they going to be better off if taxes go up? Or maybe you are trying to keep your job at a plant in Michigan or in Ohio, or you’re trying -- you’re trying to create jobs from clean coal from Pennsylvania or West Virginia, or you’re trying to keep a small farm in the family right here in Minnesota. How are you -- how are you going to be better off if our opponent adds a massive tax burden to the American economy?Here's how I look at the choice Americans face in this election. In politics, there are some candidates who use change to promote their careers. And then there are those, like John McCain, who use their careers to promote change. They are the ones whose names appear on laws and landmark reforms, not just on buttons and banners, or on self-designed presidential seals.Among politicians, there is the idealism of high-flown speechmaking, in which crowds are stirringly summoned to support great things. And then there is the idealism of those leaders, like John McCain, who actually do great things. They're the ones who are good for more than talk, the ones that we’ve always been able to count on to serve and to defend America. Senator McCain's record of actual achievements and reform helps explain why so many special interests, and lobbyists, and comfortable committee chairmen in Congress have fought the prospect of a McCain presidency -- from the primary election of 2000 to this very day.Our nominee doesn't run with the Washington herd. He's a man who's there to serve his country, and not just his party. A leader who's not looking for a fight, but sure isn’t afraid of one either. Harry Reid, the Majority of the current do-nothing Senate, he not long ago summed up his feelings about our nominee. He said, quote, "I can't stand John McCain." Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps no accolade we hear this week is better proof that we've chosen the right man. Clearly what the Majority Leader was driving at is that he can't stand up to John McCain. And, that is only -- that’s only one more reason to take the maverick out of the Senate, put him in the White House.My fellow citizens, the American presidency is not supposed to be a journey of "personal discovery." This world of threats and dangers, it’s not just a community, and it doesn't just need an organizer. And though both Senator Obama and Senator Biden have been going on lately about how they are always, quote, "fighting for you," let us face the matter squarely.There is only one man in this election who has ever really fought for you. There is only one man in this election who has ever really fought for you, in places where winning means survival and defeat means death, and that man is John McCain. You know, in our day, politicians have readily shared much lesser tales of adversity than the nightmare world -- the nightmare world in which this man and others equally brave, served and suffered for their country. And it's a long way from the fear and pain and squalor of a six-by-four cell in Hanoi to the Oval Office. But if Senator McCain is elected President, that is the journey he will have made. It's the journey of an upright and honorable man -- the kind of fellow whose name you will find on war memorials in small towns across this great country, only he was among those who came home.To the most powerful office on earth, he would bring the compassion that comes from having once been powerless, the wisdom that comes even to the captives, by the grace of God, the special confidence of those who have seen evil, and have seen how evil is overcome.A fellow -- A fellow prisoner of war, a man named Tom Moe of Lancaster, Ohio.  Tom Moe recalls looking through a pin-hole in his cell door as Lieutenant Commander John McCain was led down the hallway, by the guards, day after day. And the story is told, "When McCain shuffled back from torturous interrogations, he would turn toward Moe's door and he’d flash a grin and a thumbs up" -- as if to say, "We're gonna pull through this." My fellow Americans, that is the kind of man America needs to see us through the next four years. For a season, a gifted speaker can inspire with his words. But, for a lifetime, John McCain has inspired with his deeds.If character is the measure in this election, and hope the theme, and change the goal we share, then I ask you to join our cause. Join our cause and help America elect a great man as the next President of the United States.Thank you and God bless America. Thank you.Thank you so much. Thank you, Governor Perry. Thank you, Governors. Thank you very much. Thanks. Honored to be here. Get to speak with and to my fellow governors.It hasn't been that long, I think, since we all gathered, but, I don't know about you, but I managed to fill up the time. Let's see, I -- I had a baby. I did some traveling. I very briefly expanded my wardrobe. I made a few speeches, met a few VIPs, including those who really impact society, like Tina Fey. Aside from that, it was pretty much same old, same old since we last gathered.But in the great campaign that has come and gone -- and it was great -- one of the nicer experiences that we had along the campaign trail was seeing so many of my RGA colleagues. And I thank you guys so much for your assistance with John McCain's good run.Each of you gave your all to the cause and were helpmates and positive additions to Senator McCain's good run. You were there to help when things were looking good, and you were there to help when, once in a while, things weren't looking so good. And where I'm from in Alaska, life would be pretty lonely if all we had were fair weather friends, and you have been friends in all seasons, and for that, I will forever be grateful. And I know Senator McCain also will be so appreciative.Let me add that I was honored as well to have the support of a former RGA member, and his beautiful wife, who will soon return home from the White House to Texas. In politics, people sometimes go to great lengths to avoid stating the obvious, but I think it's about time that we all remembered that the greatest measure of a President is whether he protected and defended this great country. America's 43rd president took that foremost responsibility, that most important charge, seriously. He poured his life into it. He succeeded in keeping America safe from another attack. I'm thankful he is my soldier son's Commander-in-Chief, and for that I say God bless George W. Bush. And I thank you, Mr. President.Yes.So reflecting on it all these last couple of months, obviously, a lot learned for all of us, all of us governors these past months. And I'm going to reflect a bit on that here and -- and then express where I think that we can all move forward together as a result of what we've just learned.When I was introduced in Ohio as our party's nominee, it was humbling, and I was proud to represent all of us. But on election night in Phoenix, after a hard and honorable defeat, I was more proud than ever to have been the running mate and friend of a great man, Senator John McCain. Tens of millions of Americans shared our convictions and they gave us their votes. They shared a desire for a smaller, smarter government, and protection of our constitutional rights, and energy independence, and respect for life and equality, and I thank them for their confidence and those votes.But for us, it was not our time. It was not our moment. But it is our country. And the winner will be our President. And I wish Barack Obama well as the 44th President of the United States. And if he governs with the skill and the grace and the greatness of which he is capable, we're going to be just fine. And as he prepares to fill the office of Washington and Lincoln, know that this is a shining moment in American history. Senator Obama has achieved a great thing for himself and for our country.Now, as we wish him well, and unite, as we all work together, it's time for us to reach out to this new Administration, time for us to reach out to Barack Obama: so that he'll understand our perspective as experienced chief executives, we, responsible for tens of billions of public dollars, and tens of thousands of employees, and policies and projects that do affect the lives of our constituents every single day; so that he will understand that bigger federal government and more unfunded mandates hurt the economy and our states and America's opportunities. Republican governors understand this. That's why Americans look to us for leadership. And that's why we have seen election victories.So let's reach out to Barack Obama. And this is how we reach out and help our country: showing how lower taxes provide opportunity for the private sector to grow new wealth, and let's embrace the federalist principle that lets local government, government closest to the people, have more say, local government being the most responsive and responsible. We know that, because we live it on the front lines every day in our jobs. Let's help show him and Congress the way.Look, we need to be greater participants in the monumental debates going on right now with the economic crisis that we're facing. We're hearing now more talk of additional taxpayer bailouts, for instance, for companies and corporations, perhaps even states now, who may be standing in line with their hands out, despite perhaps some poor management decisions on their part, that helped tank our economy.Republicans can help shore this up without getting any more addicted to OPM -- O-P-M -- "Other Peoples' Money" -- spending it, when -- when a lot of us -- a lot of us just supported that first 700 billion dollar bailout. We need to have a rational discussion. I look forward to a debate and Republican governors participating in this debate of what and when is enough enough. I want our national leaders to expand the debate here and talk about accountability and personal responsibility and corporate habits and activities called to account. We can start talking about the conservative solutions to these economic challenges.Now, we can do this and we can lead in this discussion and in this debate, and we had better lead with ethics reform and an end to the self-dealing and corrupt special interests on Wall Street and in Washington that contributed to the housing crisis, and elements of the economic collapses. And this has resulted in hardworking, middle-class Americans being the ones who to really get the bum deal in all of this.And we need to not be afraid of interjecting the solutions that we see based on free market solutions as those that can meet these great challenges. Let's lead in this ethics reform effort. We got to clean it up and we got to end the corruption and the abuse once and for all. And, again, with free market solutions we need to start considering those, debating those, plugging in those solutions.We want America to be able to trust their federal government again. And here I think the public's going to be looking to Republican governors to show them the way. And we have to reform. And we're able to do it. Governors do things like -- in -- in terms of reform and manifesting our commitment to reform -- we do things like putting our state checkbook online -- that's what we've done in Alaska -- so that everybody can see where every dollar's being spent. It's other peoples' money.Federal government, they need to do the same thing. We need to be able to help our federal officials see what we do as governors that has led to reforms within our state and progress within our states, allowing our state governments to be put back on the side of the people. We've got to do that on a federal level.Now, looking back on the campaign, it was such a journey -- such a journey for my family. It was -- It was wonderful. But what a nice return we've had now to a place and to a life that we so dearly love in Alaska. Along the trail, it was my husband, Todd, who was my right hand. And among his many willing -- winning qualities is -- is the gift that he has of optimism and just thankfulness in all situations that he finds.And going forward, I'm going to count on those qualities a little more, even. Because of course there was disappointment after a loss in a national election like that. You run to win. You run the race to win. It's kind of relying on Todd with that optimism and the thankfulness in all situations, that I'm certainly going to be there with him along those lines.But far from returning to the great state of Alaska with any sense of sorrow or regret, we carried with us the best of memories and joyful experiences that really do not depend at all on political victory. For years to come, I'm going to remember all the young girls who came up to me at rallies to see the first woman having the privilege of carrying our party's VP nomination. And they inspired me.With an extra hurdle or two in front of us and in front of these young girls, I -- I feel that we've got this mutually beneficial relationship now -- me and these young girls -- where we're going to work harder, we're going to be stronger, we're going to do better. And one day, one of them will be the President, because in America, there will be no ceilings on achievement, glass or otherwise. And if I can help point the way -- if I can help point the way for these young women or inspire them to tap into their own gifts and talents and strengths, to find their own opportunities, well, it is a privilege.And I'm going to remember all the people along the way who said that they were praying for us. They were such a strength and a shield, those prayer warriors, and (yes) -- I'm going to remember the Blue Star moms and the special bond that we share, with our loved ones away at war. I'm going to remember all the veterans of war and the POWs, the former POWs that I had such an honor meeting and hearing their stories -- and oh, my goodness, America cannot forget. And -- And we must honor and respect these -- these men who have sacrificed so greatly for us and have such a love of country and need to be heard today.I'll remember the working people of this country who put their faith in us, the folks who run our factories and grow our food and teach our children and serve us in uniform, those who came out on the campaign trail also to say, you know, they've got a lot of hope for -- for the ideals that we were representing in our ticket.And I remember folks like Joe the Plumber, who -- yes, who spoke for so many when Joe the Plumber, remember, he suggested that taking more of our families' and our small businesses' hard-earned money, what that does is stifle the entrepreneurial spirit that grew this country into the greatest country on Earth.And thanks to Joe the Plumber, people whom he was speaking for felt kind of comforted, like, "See, I'm not the only one who sees that," in...this suggested policy that was proposed, that Joe the Plumber kind of got out of Barack Obama that day. That was valuable.I'll not forget guys like Tito the Builder. He recently became a U.S. citizen, running his own construction company now. And he on the trail, he was telling us so proudly, he says, "Yes, I was born in Colombia, but I was made in the USA. This is a land of opportunity."And man, just these everyday hard-working Americans whom we would meet. And -- And again, such a -- such a comfort that we had knowing that we aren't the only ones believing in America being the land of possibilities and opportunity, but the federal government, man, it's got to play its appropriate role -- not get in the way of the progress of our families and our businesses -- and for their example and their love, too.I will remember with gratitude all the families with special needs children who were the stars of the show in our rallies: kids with autism and some in -- in their wheelchairs and these beautiful kids who maybe before were made to feel like there wasn't a place for them in the life of our country. How could I ever forget the banners held up high that would say, "We're here for Trig," "Trig in the White House," and these beautiful children and their families??You know, and always being warned you can't cry on the campaign trail or you can't show that -- well, my goodness, speaking to some of these families and the challenges that they have -- and -- and they who aren't asking anything from government or from anybody else -- perhaps a hand up, but not a handout, these families. I would see them in the audience, and they would hold up their banners. And I'll -- I'll tell you, I came close to crying few times, because they just touched my heart. And it's time that America shows them our good, collective heart.Governor Crist, one of my favorite persons whom I met along the trail, was one of your constituents at a rally right here in Florida. And his name is Charlie. He's a fine young man with Down syndrome. And he's just so proud and strong and tough. And Charlie and I exchanged e-mail addresses. The last time he replied, he said, "By the way, please quit calling me darling." I was talking about him on the trail once in a while, referring -- and he says, "It's not tough enough." So today in your home state a special shout-out to Charlie, to tough Chuck -- darling Charlie. And I'll repeat what I told him, because it applies to all children and adults who are so unique: that -- that he is beautiful. And I am so glad that my boy Trig is going to grow up to be just like him, and every innocent life being so precious and worthy, and truly we must show them the good heart of America.Another funny thing, too, on the trail, we had a -- a beautiful group of young Down syndrome young adults and children, and they're holding up their signs. And Down syndrome, of course you're born with an extra chromosome. So their signs were all clever about "We're extra special. We've got this chromosome."And it reminded me of a bumper sticker that was sent to me from a Down syndrome group in Arizona. You know how we have bumper stickers on our minivans across the nation saying, you know, "My kid's on the honor roll and yours isn't," and "My kid's a better soccer player than your kid." Well, this bumper sticker -- or whatever they say -- but the bumper sticker that was sent to me was, "My kid's got more chromosomes than your kid." Like, all right! We won. We won.But so thankful that they knew that they were welcome, and that that, too, is what we represented as - as Republicans is -- is that good heart of America, that equal opportunity for all and defense of those who maybe are vulnerable and weak. Heaven help us if -- if we ever stray from that principle, from that value in our party. And it was -- it was wonderful and -- and I was honored to get to represent that value.Above all, too, I am grateful to the man who took a chance on a Republican governor, representing you, representing all of you, and what we believe in, and with sound executive experience, and on the front lines every day. That is who you are; that is who we are, making tough decisions to best serve the people who hire us. And we are held accountable every day. The buck stops on our desk. We're not just one of many voting "yea" or "nay" or "present." No, there is no "present" button in our office, is there? We have to make the tough decisions.John McCain knew what it is that we represent, what I represented, and all of you. From the moment he named me on Election Day, I had the rare enough privilege in politics of praising a candidate whose story and character and personal heroism required no embellishment. I said things about him, about how valiantly he has served and what he has overcome, things he could not say about himself because that's just the kind of man that he is: so humble. And elections, granted, they're not a test of valor and merit alone, of course, and the judgment of the majority is not for us to question now. Enough to say that for me, it was the honor of a lifetime to fight for what we believe in at the side of John S. McCain.So now, with recent elections wrapped up -- yep -- on the federal level, we are now the minority party, but let us resolve not to become the negative party, too eager to find fault or unwilling to help in this time of crisis and war. Losing an election does not have to mean losing our way. And for governors the way forward leads through our own state capitals in reforms that we will carry on or begin anew.And I promise you Americans will be looking to their governors for reaction, for stepped-up leadership, and for our abilities to unite and to progress. Let the pundits go on with their idle talk about the next election, what happens in 2012. Our concern should be about our state's next great reform, our next budget, our next opportunity to progress in the states that we serve. And on issues like taxes and energy and health care, immigration, education, we will not lack for opportunities to serve and to lead and to show the way. If the new Congress and President err on the side, for instance, of excess taxes, then it will be falling on us to show them a better way.In our federalist system, we governors have one of the greatest powers there is in an democracy, and that is the power of example. And we in the RGA must use that power to create the growth and the opportunities and the jobs that come from lower taxes and more efficient bureaucracy for everyone. Now, some things that we need to keep our eye on. If I remember correctly from the campaign, the new president and the congressional majority, they have their own ideas about energy policy. I didn't hear a lot from them about actual production of U.S. energy supplies that we need now to protect our economy and our nation from reliance on foreign cartels and dictators, those who use energy as a weapon. Maybe, though, the fact of having final responsibility for energy policy will change their outlook. But if not, then, again, it will be left for the states, for us to point the way.And from the North Slope oil fields of Alaska to the outer continental shelf of Florida, we will press on with the great work of achieving energy security, and we can do this, we have to do this. We have the American energy sources, conventional and alternative. And we can bring it about by American ingenuity and we're going to produce it by American workers, and we can do this.Yep.Other issues that we work on every day in our jobs in public service -- when it comes to, for instance, health care, the goal of affordable, accessible care is a goal that we all share. But there still are serious differences about how we reach this.While Congress, led by Pelosi and Reid and some of the other Democrat leaders -- Barney Frank, etcetera -- and the new president -- while they all debate it, we in the states can still advance our reforms to expand choices and increase competition.  And I'm not going to assume that the answer is for the federal government to just take it over and try to run America's health care system -- Heaven forbid.Governors, let's lead on this reform front too, with medical savings accounts -- those ideas -- and transparency and medical record keeping and elimination of CONs and barriers to more choices. Let's just get it done, and, again, show the federal government the way. And, now, finally in every great reform effort there is an element of self-reform. And Republicans cannot shy away from that challenge either. We must see reform within.The costs of war and security alone -- that cannot explain a federal debt that's grown to more than 10 trillion dollars. Washington, D.C., leaders spent public money in disregard of the public interest, just like the opponents that they used to criticize. They got too comfortable in power. Maybe they forgot why they were sent to Washington and who they were sent to serve. We're looking now at an American people having to work for their government instead of our government working for the people. And enough -- enough of that.All of this must change if we are to lead again in Washington, in changing Washington for the better. So in the months ahead, let us build our case with actions and not just words. Let us reclaim our good name as the party of spending restraint and limited government and economic opportunity and personal freedom and responsibility and American tradition. Let us be true to our beliefs, strong in the defense of the weak, unafraid to speak for American ideals, and firm in our support for the men and women who defend those ideals in a dangerous world. And in all that we do, let us carry ourselves with good will and confidence and with a servant's heart. Let's lead by example.A week ago, America did make her choice. And as for us, with a strong group of leaders here, our convictions, our loyalties, our hopes for this country remain the same, I am sure.In respect to our presidential campaign, now it is time for us to go our own way and leaving neither bitter nor vanquished, but instead confident in the knowledge that there will be another day, and we will gather once more with new strength. We'll rise to fight again.In the meantime, governors, I know -- RGA -- we're going to be walking the walk of true reform within our states. We will lead by example. The nation needs us.And, I say, God bless you, in your states, and thank you for all you are doing for this great country. And we're going to step it up even more.So, RGA, thank you guys. God bless you.Thank you.I am so proud to be an American! Thank you so much for being here tonight!Do you love your freedom?!If you love your freedom, think of that.Any of you here serving in uniform, past or present, raise your hand. We're going to thank you for our freedom. God bless you guys! We salute you! We honor you. Thank you.I am so proud to be American. Thank you. Gosh, thank you.Happy birthday, Ronald Reagan!Well, a special hello to the C-SPAN viewers. You may not be welcome in those health care negotiations, but you have an invitation to the Tea Party.Very good to be here in Tennessee, the Volunteer State. It's the home of good country music and good southern barbecue and -- great to be at the Tea Party convention. I guess down here that's some Southern Sweet Tea. And you know up in Alaska, we have a smaller version of Tea Party up there. We call it "iced tea." And I am a big supporter of this movement. I believe in this movement. Got lots of friends and family in the lower 48 who attend these events and across the country just knowing that this is the movement and America is ready for another revolution -- and you are a part of this.I look forward to attending more Tea Party events in the near future. It is just so inspiring to see real people -- not politicos, not inside-the-Beltway professionals -- come out and stand up and speak out for common-sense conservative principles.And today, I want to start off with a special shout-out to American's newest Senator, thanks to you, Scott Brown. Now in many ways Scott Brown represents what this beautiful movement is all about. You know, he was just a guy with a truck and a passion to serve our country. He looked around and he saw that things weren't quite right in Washington. So, he stood up and he decided that he was going to do his part to put our government back on the side of the people. And it took guts. And it took a lot of hard work. But with grassroots support, Scott Brown carried the day.And it has been so interesting now to watch the aftermath of the Massachusetts Chowder Revolution. The White House blames the candidate -- their candidate. And Nancy Pelosi, she blamed the Senate Democrats. And Rahm Emanuel, he criticized a pollster. And yet again, President Obama found some way to make this all about George Bush. You know, considering the recent conservative election sweep, it’s time that they stop blaming everyone else. When you’re 0-for-3, you’d better stop lecturing and start listening.The only place that the Left hasn’t placed the blame is on their agenda. So, some advice for our friends on that side of the aisle: That’s where you got to look because that’s what got you into this mess -- the Obama-Pelosi-Reid agenda. It’s going to leave us less secure, more in debt, and more under the thumb of big government. And that is out of touch, and it’s out of date. And if Scott Brown is any indication, it’s running out of time.Because from Virginia to New Jersey to Massachusetts, voters are sending a message up and down the East Coast and in good places like Nevada and Connecticut and Colorado, Michigan, North Dakota, they've got the Liberal Left -- that establishment -- running scared. The bottom line is this: It’s been a year now. They own this now and voters are going to hold them accountable. Because out here in the cities and in the towns across this great country, we know that we’ve got some big problems to solve. We’ve gotten tired now of -- of looking backward. We want to look forward. And from here, my friends, the -- the future -- it looks really good. It looks really good because if there’s hope in Massachusetts, there’s hope everywhere.Brown’s victory -- it’s exciting, and it’s a sign of more good things to come. A lot of great common sense conservative candidates, they’re going to put it all on the line in 2010. This year, there are going to be some tough primaries. And I think that’s good. Competition in these primaries is good. Competition makes us work harder and be more efficient and produce more. And I hope you’ll get out there and work hard for the candidates who reflect your values, your priorities -- because despite what the pundits want you to think, contested primaries aren’t civil war. They’re democracy at work, and that’s beautiful.I was the product of a competitive primary where, running for governor, I faced five guys in the party, and we put our ideas and our experience out there on the table for a debate, and then we allowed, of course, the voters to decide. And that is a healthy process, and it gives Americans the kind of leadership that they want and deserve. And so in 2010, I tip my hat to anyone with the courage to throw theirs in the ring, and may the best ideas and candidates win.But while I hope that you’re going to give these candidates that you choose your best effort, please understand that they’re human. There’s no perfect candidate, and they’re going to disappoint occasionally. And when they do, let them know, but don’t get discouraged and sit it out, because the stakes are too high. The stakes are too high right now, and your voice is too important. So work hard for these candidates, but put your faith in ideas.And in that spirit, I caution against allowing this movement to be defined by any one leader or politician. The Tea Party movement is not a top-down operation. It’s a ground-up call to action that is forcing both parties to change the way that they're doing business, and that’s beautiful. This is about the people. This is about the people, and it’s bigger than any king or queen of a Tea Party. And it’s a lot bigger than any charismatic guy with a teleprompter.The soul of this movement is the people -- everyday Americans who grow our food and run our small businesses, teach our kids, and fight our wars. They’re folks in small towns and cities across this great nation who saw what was happening -- and they saw and were concerned, and they got involved. Like you, they go to town hall meetings, and they write op-eds. They run for local office. You all have the courage to stand up and speak out. You have a vision for the future, one that values conservative principles and common sense solutions. And if that sounds like you, then you probably too are feeling a bit discouraged by what you see in Washington D.C.Now in recent weeks, many of us have grown even more uneasy about our Administration’s approach to national security, the most important role ascribed to our federal government. Let me say, too, it’s not politicizing our security to discuss our concerns, because Americans deserve to know the truth about the threats that we face and what the Administration is or isn’t doing about them. So let’s talk about them.New terms used like “overseas contingency operation” instead of the word “war.” That reflects a worldview that is out of touch with the enemy that we face. We can’t spin our way out of this threat. It’s one thing to call a pay raise a job created or saved. It’s quite another to call the devastation that a homicide bomber can inflict a “manmade disaster.” And I just say, come on, Washington. If nowhere else, national security -- that’s one place where you got to call it like it is.And in that we spirit -- in that spirit we should acknowledge that on Christmas Day, the system did not work. Abdul Mutallab passed through airport security with a bomb, and he boarded a flight hell-bent on killing innocent passengers. This terrorist trained in Yemen with Al Qaida, his American visa was not revoked until after he tried to kill hundreds of passengers. On Christmas Day, the only thing that stopped this terrorist was blind luck and brave passengers. Really, it was a Christmas miracle, and that is not the way that the system is supposed to work.What followed was equally disturbing. After he was captured, he was questioned for only 50 minutes. We had a choice in how to do this. The choice was, only question him for 50 minutes and then read his Miranda Rights. The Administration says then, there are no downsides or upsides to treating terrorists like civilian criminal defendants.1But a lot of us would beg to differ. For example, there are questions we would have liked this foreign terrorist to answer before he lawyered up and invoked our U.S. Constitutional right to remain silent. Our U.S. Constitutional rights. Our rights that you, sir [to male veteran in audience] fought and were willing to die for to protect in our Constitution. The rights that my son, as an infantryman in the United States Army is willing to die for. The protections provided  -- thanks to you, sir -- we’re going to bestow them on a terrorist who hates our Constitution and tries to destroy our Constitution and our country? This makes no sense because we have a choice in how we’re going to deal with the terrorists. We don’t have to go down that road.There are questions that we would have like answered before he lawyered up like: “Where exactly were you trained and by whom? You -- You’re bragging about all these other terrorists just like you. Who are they? When and where will they try to strike next? The events surrounding the Christmas Day plot reflect the kind of thinking that led to September 11th. That...the...threat then, as the USS Cole was attacked, our Embassies were attacked, it was treated like an international crime spree, not like an act of war. We’re seeing that mindset again settle into Washington. That scares me for my children and for your children. Treating this like a mere law enforcement matter places our country at grave risk. Because that’s not how radical Islamic extremists are looking at this. They know we’re at war. And to win that war, we need a Commander-in-Chief, not a professor of law standing at the lectern.It’s that same kind of misguided thinking that is seen throughout the Administration’s foreign policy decisions. Our President spent a year reaching out to hostile regimes, writing personal letters to dangerous dictators, and apologizing for America. And what do we have to show for that? Here’s what we have to show. North Korea tested nuclear weapons and longer range ballistic missiles. Israel, a friend and a critical ally, now question[s] the strength of our supports. Plans for a missile defense system in Europe? They’ve been scrapped. Relations with China and Russia are no better. And relations with Japan -- that key Asian ally -- they’re in the worse shape in years.And around the world, people who are seeking freedom from oppressive regimes, wonder if Alaska2 is still that beacon of hope for their cause. The Administration cut support for democracy programs, and where the President has not been clear, I ask, where is his clear and where is his strong voice of support for the Iranians who are risking all in their opposition to Ahmadinejad?Just that short list -- that short list. And you know, it’s no wonder that our President only spent about nine percent of his State of the Union Address discussing national security and foreign policy, because there aren’t a whole lot of victories that he could talk about that night. And that’s just a short list.There are so many challenges in front of us, and it can seem overwhelming. But despite these challenges, we have hope that we can move things in the right direction. But it’s going to require the Administration to change course. We need a foreign policy that distinguishes America’s friends from her enemies and recognizes the true nature of the threats that we face.We need a strong national defense. I think you would agree with me, as -- as Reagan used to talk about that "peace through strength." And in that respect, I applaud the President for following at least a part of the recommendations made by our commanders on the ground to send in some more reinforcements to Afghanistan. Now, though he, we must spend less time courting our adversaries, spending more -- more time working with our allies. And we must build effective coalitions capable of confronting dangerous regimes like Iran and North Korea. It’s time for more than just tough talk. Just like you -- probably just so tired of hearing the talk, talk, talk. Tired of hearing the talk.It’s time for some tough actions, like sanctions on Iran. And in places in the world where people are struggling and oppressed and they’re fighting for freedom, America must stand with them. We need a clear foreign policy that stands with the people and for democracy -- one that reflects both our values and our interests, and it is in our best interests, because democracies -- they don’t go to war with each other. They can settle their differences peacefully.The lesson of the last year is this: Foreign policy can’t be managed through the politics of personality. And our President would do well to take note of an observation John F. Kennedy had made once he was in office: that all the world’s problems aren't his predecessor’s fault. The problems that we face in the real world require real solutions. And we'd better get to it, because the risks that they pose are great and they’re grave. However, as Barry Goldwater said: "We can be conquered by bombs...but we can also be conquered by neglect by ignoring our constitution and disregarding the principles of limited government."And in the past year, his words rang true. Washington has now replaced private irresponsibility with public irresponsibility. The list of companies and industries that the government is crowding out and bailing out and taking over, it continues to grow. First it was the banks, mortgage companies, financial institutions, then automakers. Soon, if they had their way, health care, student loans.Today, in the words of Congressman Paul Ryan, The 700 billion dollar "TARP has morphed into crony capitalism at its worse." And it's becoming a "slush fund" for the Treasury Department's favorite big players, just as we had been warned about.3 And while people on Main Street look for jobs, people on Wall Street -- they're collecting billions and billions in your bailout bonuses. Among the top 17 companies that received your bailout money, 92 percent of the senior officers and directors -- they still have their good jobs.And everyday Americans are wondering: Where are the consequences? They helped to get us into this worst economic situation since the Great Depression. Where are the consequences?When Washington passed a 787 billion dollar "stimulus bill," we were nervous because they just spent 700 billion dollars to bailout Wall Street. And on the state level, as a governor, we knew that a lot of that money came with fat strings attached. The federal government was going to have more control over our states. They were going to disrespect the 10th Amendment of our Constitution by essentially bribing us with, "Take this federal money" (and then we're going to be able to mandate a few more things on you though.)I joined with other conservative governors around the nation in rejecting some of those dollars. Legislators -- Turned out to be, though, nothing for applause because -- nothing to applaud because -- legislators then were threatening lawsuits if governors didn't take the money. And I vetoed some of the funds that -- I knew we couldn't maintain the programs, that we were going to pay for it with these -- these borrowed, printed up, invented dollars out of nowhere. But lawsuits were threat -- even in Alaska, in a Republican controlled legislature, my veto was overridden and the money poured into those states. And I believe we will see this play out in our states: The federal government will have taken more control over the people who live in our states.Now I understand wanting to believe that this is all free money. And for some I guess it's tough to tell people no in tough times. Plus, remember our Administration promised that it would be good stewards of tax payer dollars. Remember? Remember Vice President Biden. He was put in charge of a tough, unprecedented oversight effort. That's how it was introduced. You know why? Because nobody messes with Joe.Now, this was all part of that hope and change and transparency. And now a year later I've got to ask those supporters of all that: How's that hopey-changey stuff working out for you? See, I tried to look into that transparency thing, but Joe's meetings with the transparency and accountability board -- it was closed to the public. Yeah, they held the transparency meeting behind closed doors. So, not sure if anybody's messing with Joe, but here is what I do know: A lot of that stimulus cash -- it ended up in some pretty odd places, including districts that didn't even exist; and programs that really don't have a whole lot to do with stimulating the economy.Nearly six million dollars was given to a democrat pollster who had already made millions during the Democrats' presidential primary. Nearly 10 million was spent to update the stimulus web site. And one state even spent a million bucks to put up signs that advertised that they were spending the federal stimulus projects. Or as someone put it: This was a million dollar effort using your money to tell you it's spending your money. And it didn't create a single job.These uses of stimulus funds don't sound targeted and they don't sound timely, as we were promised. They just sound wasteful. And in the case of those signs, kind of ridiculous. All of that -- I don't know about you, but seeing -- seeing those checks written for some of these pet projects of congressmen and those in the White House -- did you feel very stimulated?And then it turns out that Washington got the price tag wrong. All of these projects and programs, they cost tens and tens of billions of dollars more than we were told. It's now closer to 860 billion dollars. Add this to the fact that the White House can't even tell us how many jobs were actually created. Depending on who you ask, it's anywhere from thousands to two million.But one number we are sure of is the unemployment number. And that's at 9.7, which is well above the 8 percent mark that we were promised our stimulus package would go to avoid. And unemployment now is -- underemployment now is 16.5 percent. You've got all these people who have just kind of given up right now, and they're not even enrolling in some of these programs. Tough to count them.Folks, I won't go into all of it tonight, but the list of broken promises is long. Candidate Obama pledged to end closed-door, sweetheart deals and no-bid contracts once and for all, But just last month his Administration awarded a 25 million dollar no-bid contract to a Democrat donor. Is that hope? Nope. It's not hope.That's the same old, same old in Washington, D.C. And instead of changing the way Washington does business, we got the "Cornhusker Kickback" and the "Louisiana Purchase" and millions of tax breaks for union bosses' desires. The promised ban on lobbyists in this new Administration, he handed out waivers left and right, and there are more than 40 former lobbyists who now work at the top levels in this Administration. And these days most members of Congress, they don't get to read the bill before they have to vote on it, much less the pledge that a bill wouldn't be signed into law until we all had five days to review it online.??So see, it's easy to understand why Americans are shaking their heads when Washington has broken trust with the people that these politicians are to be serving. We're drowning in national debt and many of us have had enough.Now the foundational principles in all of this, it's easy to understand. It really is -- even I though I think D.C. would just love for us to believe that this is all way over our heads. Somebody in Tennessee, somebody up there in Alaska, she'll never understand what we're talking about here in D.C. No, this is all pretty simple stuff. When our families, when our small businesses, we start running our finances into the red, what do we do? We tighten our belts and we cut back budgets. Isn't that what we teach our children -- to live within our means? It's what Todd and I do when we have to make payroll, buy new equipment for our commercial fishing business. We have to plan for the future, meet a budget.But in Washington, why is it just the opposite of that? This week, they unveiled a record-busting, mindboggling 3.8 trillion dollar federal budget. And they keep borrowing, and they keep printing these dollars, and they keep making us more and more beholden to foreign countries, and they keep making us take these steps towards insolvency. Now what they're doing in proposing these big new programs with giant price tags, they're sticking our kids with the bill. And that's immoral. That's generational theft. We're stealing the opportunities from our children.And freedom lovers around this country need to be aware that all of this makes us more beholden to other countries. It makes us less secure. It makes us less free. And that should tick us off. So folks, with all these serious challenges ahead, we've got private-sector job creation that has got to take place and got these economic woes and -- and health care, the war on terror.But as the saying goes, if you can't ride two horses at once, you shouldn't be in the circus. So here's some advice for those in D.C. who want to shine in the greatest show on earth. Too often when big government and big business get together and cronyism sets in, well, it benefits insiders, not everyday Americans. The Administration and Congress should do what we did up there in Alaska when the good old boys started making back room deals that were benefiting big oil and not the citizens of the state. And the citizens of the state then, Alaskans, we got together and we put government back on the side of the people. And a lot of the big wigs, they started getting in trouble and some of the big wigs ended up going to jail over their back room deals.Our government needs to adopt a pro-market agenda that doesn't pick winners and losers, but it invites competition and it levels the playing field for everyone. Washington has got to across the board, lower taxes for small businesses so that our mom and pops can reinvest and hire people so that our businesses can thrive. They should support competition, support innovation, reward hard work.And they should do all that they can to make sure that the game is fair without that undo corrupt influence. And then they need to get government out of the way. If they would do this -- If they would do this, our economy, it would roar back to life and for instance on health care, we need bipartisan solutions to help families, not increase taxes. Remember that red reset button that America through Secretary Clinton, she gave to Putin. Remember that? I think we should ask for that back and hand it instead to Congress. And say, no, start all over on this health care scheme and pass meaningful, market-based reforms that incorporate some simple steps that have broad support, the -- the best ideas, not back room deals but things like insurance purchases across state lines and the tort reform that we've talked about.Those things that are common sense steps towards reform that the White House and -- and leaders on -- on the Democrats' side of -- of the aisle in Congress, they don't want to consider. So it makes you wonder, what truly is their motivation? What is their intention if they won't consider even these common sense, broad-based support ideas that would work? And to create jobs. Washington should jump start energy projects. I said it during the campaign and I'll say it now: We need an "all of the above" approach to energy policy. That means proven conventional resource development and support for nuclear power. And I was thankful that the President at least mentioned nuclear power in the State of the Union.But, again, we need more than words. We need a plan to turn that goal into a reality and that way we can pave the way for projects that will create jobs. Those are real job creators and deliver carbon free energy. And while we're at it, let's expedite the regulatory and permitting and legal processes for on and offshore drilling. Instead of paying billions of dollars, hundreds of billions of dollars that now are being sent to foreign regimes, we should be drilling here and drilling now instead of relying on them to develop their resources for us. So what we've got to do is axe that plan for cap-and-tax, that policy that's going to kill jobs and is going to pass the burden of paying for it onto our working families.And finally, if we're going to get serious about fiscal restraint, then we've got to make Washington start walking the walk. After putting us on a track to quadruple the deficit, the proposed spending freeze, maybe it's a start, but it's certainly not enough. As Senator John Thune said, it's like putting a Band-Aid on a self- inflicted gunshot wound.We need to go further. Cut spending. Don't just simply slow down a spending spree. And we've got to axe the plans for a second stimulus when the first hasn't even been measured for any success yet. Kill the plans for the second stimulus and be aware that now that second stimulus is being referred to as a "jobs bill." Now these aren't the only ways to rein in spending, and alone, they're not going to be enough, not enough to tackle the insane debt and the deficits that we face. But they are a good way to start and to show that we're serious about getting our financial house in order.Now like a lot of you, perhaps, I have spent the last year thinking about how -- how to best serve. How -- How can I help our country? How can I make sure that I, that you, that we're in a position of nobody being able to succeed? When they try to tell us to sit down and shut up, how can we best serve? In 2008, I had the honor -- really of a lifetime -- the honor of a lifetime, running alongside John McCain. I...look at him as an American hero. And nearly 60 million Americans voted for us. They cast their ballot for the things that we are talking about tonight: lower taxes, smaller government, transparency, energy independence and strong national security.And while no, our votes did not carry the day, it was still a call to serve our country. Those voters wanted us to keep on fighting and take the gloves off. And they wanted common sense conservative solutions. And they wanted us to keep on debating. And each of us who is here today, we're living proof that you don't need an office or a title to make a difference. And you don't need a proclaimed leader, as if we're all just a bunch of sheep and we're looking for a leader to progress this movement.??That is what we're fighting for. It is what we are fighting about. It is what we believe in and that's what this movement is all about. When people are willing and to meet halfway and stand up for common sense solutions and values, then we want to work with them. And in that spirit, I applaud Independents and Democrats like Bart Stupak who stood up to tough partisan pressure and he wanted to protect the sanctity of life and the rights of the soon to be born. I applaud him for that.??When we can work together, we will. But when the work of Washington violates our -- our conscience and when the work and efforts in Washington, D.C., violate our Constitution, then we will stand up and we will be counted -- because we are the loyal opposition. And we have a vision for the future of our country, too, and it is a vision anchored in time tested-truths: that the government that governs least, governs best. And that the Constitution -- the Constitution provides the best road map towards a more perfect union. And that only a limited government can expand prosperity and opportunity for all. And that freedom is a God-given right and it is worth fighting for. God bless you. And that America's finest, our men and women in uniform, are a force for good throughout the world -- and that is nothing to apologize for.??These are enduring truths and these enduring truths have been passed down from Washington to Lincoln to Reagan and now to you. But while this movement, our roots there, in our spirit, too, they are historic. The current form of this movement is fresh and it's young and it's fragile. We are now the keepers of an honorable tradition of conservative values and good works. And we must never forget that it is a sacred trust to carry these ideas forward. It demands civility and it requires decent, constructive, issue-oriented debate. ??Opponents of this message, they're seeking to marginalize this movement. They want to paint us as ideologically extreme and the counterpoint to liberal intolerance and outrageous conspiracy theorists aimed at our own government and unethical shameless tactics like considering a candidate's children fair game. ??But unlike the elitists who denounce this movement -- they just don't want to hear the message -- I've traveled across this great country and I've talked to the patriotic men and women who make up the Tea Party movement. And they are good and kind and selfless and they are deeply concerned about our country. And today I ask only this: Let's make this movement a tribute to their good example and make it worthy of their hard work and their support. ??Do not let us have our heads turned from the important work before us and do not give others an excuse to be able to turn their eyes from this. Let us not get bogged down in the small squabbles. Let us get caught up in the big ideas.To do so would be a fitting tribute to Ronald Reagan, especially tonight, as he would have turned 99. No longer with us, his spirit lives on and his American dream endures. He knew the best of our country is not all gathered in Washington, D.C. It is here in our communities where families live, and children learn, and children with special needs are welcomed in this world and embraced. And thank you for that. ??The best of America can be found in places where patriots are brave enough and free enough to be able to stand up and speak up; and where small businesses grow our economy one job at a time; and folks like Reagan, we know that America is still that "shining city on a hill." I do believe that God "shed his grace on thee." We know that our best days are yet to come. Tea Party nation, we know that there is nothing wrong with America that together we can't fix as Americans.??So from the bottom of my heart and speaking on behalf of millions and millions and millions of Americans who want to encourage this movement, this movement is about the people. Who can argue a movement that is about the people and for the people? Remember, all political power is inherent in the people, and government is supposed to be working for the people. That is what this movement is about. ??From the bottom of my heart, I thank you for being part of the solution. God bless you, Tea Partiers and God bless the USA.Thank you. God bless you guys.